Bulk Subscribe Documentation (#3077)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/pubsub/pubsub-bulk.md

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/publish/bulk/my-pubsub-name/topic-a \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '[
        {
            "entryId": "ae6bf7c6-4af2-11ed-b878-0242ac120002",
            "event":  "first",
            "contentType": "text/plain"
        },
        {
            "entryId": "b1f40bd6-4af2-11ed-b878-0242ac120002",
            "event":  {
                "message": "second"   
            },
            "contentType": "application/json"
        },
      ]'
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

```powershell
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -ContentType 'application/json' -Uri 'http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/publish/bulk/my-pubsub-name/topic-a' `
-Body '[
        {
            "entryId": "ae6bf7c6-4af2-11ed-b878-0242ac120002",
            "event":  "first",
            "contentType": "text/plain"
        },
        {
            "entryId": "b1f40bd6-4af2-11ed-b878-0242ac120002",
            "event":  {
                "message": "second"   
            },
            "contentType": "application/json"
        },
      ]'
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Subscribing messages in bulk

> The bulk subscribe API allows you to subscribe multiple messages from a topic in a single request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bulk subscribe API allows you to receive multiple messages from a topic in a single request. 
```

Reviewer 2: There are going to be a number of changes to the original PRs, so need to get through those first which will affect this one.

{{< /tabs >}}

## Subscribing messages in bulk

The bulk subscribe API allows you to subscribe multiple messages from a topic in a single request. 

> As we know from [How to: Publish & Subscribe to topics]({{< ref howto-publish-subscribe.md >}}), there are two ways to subscribe to topic(s):

Reviewer 2: Need to remove all the "we" in this topic. This should be written as
```suggestion
There are two ways to subscribe to topics as covered in [How to: Publish & subscribe to topics]({{< ref howto-publish-subscribe.md >}}).
```

> - **Declaratively**, where subscriptions are defined in an external file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Declaratively** - subscriptions are defined in an external file.
```

Author: Done

> - **Programmatically**, where subscriptions are defined in user code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Programmatically** - subscriptions are defined in code.
```

Author: Done

To Bulk Subscribe to topic(s), we just need to use `bulkSubscribe` spec attribute, something like following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v2alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: order-pub-sub
spec:
  topic: orders
  routes: 
    default: /checkout
  pubsubname: order-pub-sub
  bulkSubscribe:
    enabled: true
    maxMessagesCount: 100
    maxAwaitDurationMs: 40
scopes:
- orderprocessing
- checkout
```

> In the example above, `bulkSubscribe` altogether is _optional_. If you decide to use `bulkSubscribe`, then:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above, `bulkSubscribe is _optional_. If you use `bulkSubscribe`, then:
```

Author: Done

> In the example above, `bulkSubscribe` altogether is Optional. But, if you decide to use `bulkSubscribe`, then:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example above, `bulkSubscribe` altogether is _optional_. If you decide to use `bulkSubscribe`, then:
```

Author: Done

> - `enabled` is mandatory

Reviewer 2: describe what this does. Does this apply per topic or for all topics. Something like this. 
```suggestion
- `enabled` is mandatory and enables or disables bulk subscriptions on this topic
```

Author: Done

> - `enabled` is mandatory to be given.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `enabled` is mandatory
```

Author: Done

> - You can optionally configure the max number of messages (`maxMessagesCount`) delivered via Dapr in a bulk message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can optionally configure the max number of messages (`maxMessagesCount`) delivered in a bulk message
```

Author: Done

> - You can optionally configure max number of messages (`maxMessagesCount`) that should be delivered to it via Dapr in a bulk message

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can optionally configure the max number of messages (`maxMessagesCount`) delivered via Dapr in a bulk message
```

Author: Done

> - You can optionally provide the max duration to wait (`maxAwaitDurationMs`) before a bulk message is sent via Dapr to the app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can optionally provide the max duration to wait (`maxAwaitDurationMs`) before a bulk message is sent to the app
```

Author: Done

> - You can also optionally provide max duration to await (`maxAwaitDurationMs`) before a bulk message is sent via Dapr to App

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can optionally provide the max duration to wait (`maxAwaitDurationMs`) before a bulk message is sent via Dapr to the app
```

Author: Done

> If the application decides not to configure `maxMessagesCount` and/or `maxAwaitDurationMs`, the defaults will be used as per the respective component in Dapr.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the application decides not to configure `maxMessagesCount` and/or `maxAwaitDurationMs`, the respective component defaults are used.
```
Where are these defaults found of each component?

Author: I have tried to mention the defaults with each parameter. Please see if that makes sense.

> In case, Application decides not to configure maxMessagesCount and/or maxAwaitDurationMs, defaults as per respective component in Dapr will be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the application decides not to configure `maxMessagesCount` and/or `maxAwaitDurationMs`, the defaults will be used as per the respective component in Dapr.
```

Author: Done

> The application receives an EntryId associated with each entry (individual message) in the bulk message. This EntryId must be used by the app to communicate the status of that particular entry. If the app fails to notify on an EntryId status, it's considered a `RETRY`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application receives an `EntryId` associated with each entry (individual message) in the bulk message. This `EntryId` must be used by the app to communicate the status of that particular entry. If the app fails to notify on an `EntryId` status, it's considered a `RETRY`.
```

Author: Done

> Status | Description

Reviewer 2: Not clear how this table below relates to EntryId. Can you explain with an EntryId example?

Author: I have incorporated more details. Please see if it suffices.

> Application receives an EntryId associated with each entry (individual message) in this bulk message and this EntryId has to be used by App to communicate back the status of that particular entry. In case, App misses to notify status of an EntryId, it will be considered as RETRY.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The application receives an EntryId associated with each entry (individual message) in the bulk message. This EntryId must be used by the app to communicate the status of that particular entry. If the app fails to notify on an EntryId status, it's considered a `RETRY`.
```

Author: Done

--------- | -----------
`SUCCESS` | Message is processed successfully
`RETRY` | Message to be retried by Dapr
`DROP` | Warning is logged and message is dropped

### Example

> 

Reviewer 2: Put a single sentence here describing the code samples below

Author: Please check now.

        }
      }
      return new BulkSubscribeAppResponse(entries);
    });
  }
}
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

```typescript

import { DaprServer } from "@dapr/dapr";

const pubSubName = "orderPubSub";
const topic = "topicbulk";

const DAPR_HOST = process.env.DAPR_HOST || "127.0.0.1";
const DAPR_HTTP_PORT = process.env.DAPR_HTTP_PORT || "3502";
const SERVER_HOST = process.env.SERVER_HOST || "127.0.0.1";
const SERVER_PORT = process.env.APP_PORT || 5001;

async function start() {
    const server = new DaprServer(SERVER_HOST, SERVER_PORT, DAPR_HOST, DAPR_HTTP_PORT);

    // Publish multiple messages to a topic with default config.
    await client.pubsub.bulkSubscribeWithDefaultConfig(pubSubName, topic, (data) => console.log("Subscriber received: " + JSON.stringify(data)));

    // Publish multiple messages to a topic with specific maxMessagesCount and maxAwaitDurationMs.
    await client.pubsub.bulkSubscribeWithConfig(pubSubName, topic, (data) => console.log("Subscriber received: " + JSON.stringify(data)), 100, 40);
}

```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer 3: @DeepanshuA could you add this demo section to line 417?

```
## Watch the demo

Watch [this video for an demo on bulk pub/sub](https://youtu.be/BxiKpEmchgQ?t=1170):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/BxiKpEmchgQ?start=1170" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

Author: Done
